Means a better not suck.
Right.
Can I say that?
I'm sorry.
I should probably
shouldn't have said that.
Lord.
Forgive me.
Um, obviously this morning's not about me.
It's about the word of God.
And so that's one of the coolest
things about this morning is, um,
just so you guys know a little
bit, just start with this question.
Anybody here have a fear of
speaking in front of people.
Okay.
At least three or four or five, six
of y'all you don't like speaking of.
Okay.
So, so, you know, I don't either, um, I've
struggled with that ever since I was a
student in high school, I was homeschooled
up until I went to high school.
And when I was in high school, I'm
actually sat in the back row and I refuse
to answer questions and I loved to not
go to any sort of classes, like speech,
like in college, whenever we had speech,
I freaked out that I had to share.
Um, and so then what the Lord
does is he laughs and he goes.
You're going to preach every week
and I go, oh, okay, well, you're
going to have to figure this out.
And so every week the Lord uses
my weakness to be able to bring
glory to his name in his word.
And I'm just challenged by that every
week that I get to stand here and go,
oh, oh man, I got another message that
the Lord has prepared for each one of us.
And I get the opportunity
to proclaim that.
So, so, you know, um, and I was
thinking through this one when I
was, uh, helping out with worship.
So you guys know I don't, I play bass.
Which means I know how to pluck
something and hit the right note.
And so they asked me to do that
occasionally and in the midst of
that, um, it's always like I'm trying
to play the bass and I'm processing
through like presenting a message and
there's a lot going on in my brain,
but I started thinking just so you
know, in the middle of that, of,
um, something I want to continue to
communicate to you guys in this, um,
there is nothing special about me.
Um, there's and what I mean by that?
Um, special obviously to God and
my family, but there's nothing
special about me and the fact of
like my gifting or just who I am.
It's literally the only reason
why I can stay in here today.
The only reason why we could come
and move from Oklahoma to help
plant a church is because of.
So every week I stand up here humbled,
the Lord would even use a person like
me to be able to proclaim his word.
And so I don't say before you
confident, I'm confident in the Lord.
Um, but a saying here really in a
humble state to know that I am so
dependent upon the Lord every single
time I speak every single time I share.
And I always ask this question,
Lord, to let me know, let me know.
And my wife always reminds me, you
can't mess up what God's doing.
And so that's the challenge for
me today as we continue to share.
Um, so I say all that to say today,
we're going to continue our series.
We started a couple of weeks ago
and the book of first Timothy.
And so if you want to go ahead and turn
there, if you have your phones, I guess
you don't turn there, you swipe there.
Um, but we're going to be in first
Timothy chapter one, we're going to
start covering verses 12 through 17.
And today is a powerful message because
it is the testimony of Paul, the testimony
of Paul and we, we, we understand this
idea and this is something I'm we're
going to continue to talk about today
is there is power in our testimonies,
there's power in our testimonies.
Um, and so I want to ask this question,
how many people in this room have heard
a powerful message or story life story
of somebody's life that impacted you?
Anybody.
Okay.
So we've got a couple of people that have
just really been impacted by somebody's
life story and how they've shared it.
Well, I look at it this
way is I've been impacted.
In a mighty way over my walk with Christ,
by multiple peoples acts of faith and
stories of faith and things like that.
And one of those I want to share
with you is I actually, as I was
growing in my faith, um, one year I
decided which then went into be in
five years, one year decided to go to
Ghana, west Africa on a mission trip.
So, you know, halfway around the
world in a place that I've never been.
And they hand me this book, it's called
the 10, who changed the world anyway.
Read the Tinder chains of the
world or the five and change the
world because they have two books.
Um, so the 10 who changed
the world, if you have never
read it, you need to read it.
Um, talks about 10 missionaries who
gave their lives for the sake of the
gospel, and then went all across the.
To proclaim the truth.
And one of those families
is John and Betty STAM.
Um, and you'll see like a
little cute picture of this
and their little baby Helen.
So this family decided to move
over to China to be able to share,
um, the gospel with people there.
And they spent their shortly.
Um, ministering to the people there.
Um, and they, while they were there,
they got married, they were 27 and 28.
They got married, they had their
first child, but there was a lot
of communism, um, in the issues.
And some bandits that obviously came
in to their home and pulled them out
and basically began to question them.
They stole all their money from them.
And once they figured out
they were Christians, that's
all they needed to know.
And so I'm going to give you just a brief
story with this, and it really impacted
me as I'm reading through this story.
This is a family that
spent a very minimal.
In China to be able to be missionaries.
And they were killed for their faith.
Now the little baby, here's the
miracle story right before they
were taken off to go be killed.
The baby was put into like, basically
a little storage bin away where they
couldn't find her, somebody in to find the
baby later, two days later, the baby was.
Alive but hungry.
And they begin to track a hundred miles.
The people that had known these,
this family trick a hundred miles to
save this little girl from all of the
people that were trying to kill her.
And she was still alive and she grew
up and lived with her grandparents.
But I say this to say this their story
impacted me, but their story really
impacted multiple missionaries that
even though they saw Shorelight 27
and 28, they died at a young age.
Multiple people became
missionaries to the people of
China because of their faith to go.
Now, if you've never been around.
Missionaries have given
the life for Christ.
You may be thinking they're crazy, right?
They're crazy for doing that.
Why would somebody go risk their lives
so that other people can know Jesus?
Here's what I'll tell you, because
that is the most important thing.
That any of us could do is to make
sure that every person that we can
come into contact knows who Jesus
is before they die from this earth.
And so that's a story that impacted me.
And so whenever I think about stories,
I think also about testimonies.
So today we're talking about Paul's
testimony and Paul's testimony should
impact us that same way and the way in
which he lived his life and the way in
which God showed grace and mercy to him.
That should challenge us, right.
That should challenge us to live
our lives in such a way that would
really reflect that same, that
same commitment to the gospel.
Um, and so I'm excited to be able to
share a little bit more about, um,
Paul's testimony and you're going to
actually hear from another family here,
um, that their, their testimony as well.
But I wanna, I wanna, uh,
start with this question.
What is, what is a test.
You guys probably know this answer,
but I want to know what do you, what do
you, what would you call a testimony?
Yeah.
Okay.
So I would say that that's
probably more of, like, if you were
questioned on something that you did
wrong, you admitted you're wrong.
So a testimony is probably more of some.
Go ahead.
Okay.
So if you're looking from a Christian
standpoint, a testimony is giving your
experience of coming to faith and Christ.
Right.
And so we're good a story, right?
So it's, it's your story,
your account of it.
So that's all great answers, guys.
Thank you so much, like for
engaging in this, because so many
times y'all just stare at me.
So.
This is great.
Let's keep it going.
Okay.
So I put a couple of things up here today.
Number one, uh, testimony could be, um,
in regards to being in the courtroom
and right, they say, Hey, will you
come up and share your testimony?
And so when we look at this, it's a
verbal communication of a firsthand
experience of something someone witnessed.
So if somebody said, Hey, give
me your testimony or your account
of what you saw in the parking
lot when so-and-so Rob so-and-so.
Well, here's my.
You know, I was staying in here
and I saw this and it's my personal
account I personally experienced.
So here's our Christian stand point.
If we wanna talk about our testimony,
um, as a, in the church, it's
a firsthand experience of what
Christ has done for that person.
And it's personal.
What do we buy personal is obviously
if you've given your life to Christ,
there's still the same components.
There's your life before.
There's how you came to Christ
or come to know Christ and
there's your life after Christ.
But I always tell people your
testimony, doesn't end the moment
you give your life to Christ.
Your, your testimony is really even past
before you gave your life to Christ and
it continues on until the day you die.
So your testimony is a lot of things.
So, so the testimony of our
life is not meant to be.
It's meant to be shared.
So I'll challenge you on a statement
that I have way down in my notes,
because it's challenged me lady lately
to continue to repeat our testimonies
are only powerful if they're shared,
because if we keep them to ourselves,
the only person that affects is ourself.
And so it's powerful because when you
hear that testimony, when you hear that
story of life change or a story I'm guys,
we can even get outside the Christian
world and to say a testimony of how.
You know, somebody provided meals
for me when I was sick, it could be
a testimony of, you know, something
radical that happened at work, but
it's something that draws people in
and change their life to be different.
And so we.
Have powerful testimonies
all throughout her life.
And as Christ followers, if you've
given your life to Christ, it is
the most powerful message that
so many people need to hear.
And today we're going to continue to
connect these stories through Paul's
testimony, um, to how powerful they are.
And so before we start with
Paul's testimony, I really want
you guys to hear a testimony of a
couple of our church members here.
And so I'm going to have Joe
and Kristen come up here.
I've got some great chairs.
I asked them this week.
And so I just want to give you a bit
of background on Joe and Kristin.
So Joe and Kristin started
attending here almost.
Let's here in April.
You guys go ahead and come
up here and you're fine.
Um, April 20, 21.
Um, it was, I always tell people this, we
launched like Easter Sunday and the next
week we decided to have a baby dedication.
We had like probably twice the amount of
people of this baby, that baby dedication.
This was a Parker.
Um, then we had our
launch, which was great.
And you guys can go and sit
down and get comfortable.
I know you're excited about
being in front of people.
So they actually are, um, related
to Joshua, Megan and Joshua, Megan
invited them to the baby dedication
and they came in and loved the
church and begin to continue to
continually be part of the church.
And they ended up giving their
lives to Christ this past year.
So here's the cool part.
Cause I want to sit down and have
a conversation with them and hear
their testimony of how this all came
about because guys, their story,
I get to meet with them about w we
average about probably once every
other week on Monday nights, we meet
online on zoom after their kids go.
This couple challenges,
my faith every day.
Like when I talk to them, I always tell
them, like, you guys inspire me, your
testimony makes me a better person,
and this is why I wanted them to share.
And the cool part is,
is they've just gotten.
You guys are awesome.
So I'm going to ask the question.
So you guys are prepared.
I told you I wouldn't
go off, off script here.
So I'm going to go to my
questions here so that I can make
sure that I ask this question.
So why don't you guys tell
us how you got connected?
Obviously I'll give you a brief story,
but how you got connected and stayed
around, I guess, to inspiring hope.
Well, uh,
credit to my sister-in-law Megan,
uh, Kristen and I were, uh, talking.
A lot about, um, our faith and you know,
how we were going to raise the girls.
Chloe had just come
along, uh, and you know,
it was, it was Parker's dedication that
kind of sparked this and we're like,
oh, they're getting him dedicated.
We haven't done anything for our girls.
And we wanted to live a life in Christ.
Didn't know what that looked
like, trying to find a home
church or a place that felt right.
Because we had been to church.
It just, we didn't feel like we were.
Four out of it for ourselves.
Um, and then literally as we're having
this serious conversation, my parents
were there and I'm stressing over it.
Megan comes to drop something and I was
she's the person I talked to about faith.
And, um, I told her what
we were discussing inside.
He handed me the invite.
I think it was for Easter Sunday.
Um, and so just come check it out.
See,
I don't think so.
I think the dedication was your first
time you were here or was it the same
day?
Maybe.
But, um,
yeah.
And then, um, we just kind of fell
in love with the community and seeing
how everybody here had such, um,
dedication to Christ and, and what
they were getting the fulfillment
in their lives that we witnessed.
And it was all because of Jesus.
We wanted that.
And so the community made us
feel welcome and just kind of
like living up to your mission.
Inspiring others through, I forget the
rest of the mission, but how everyone
else is seeing how they were living.
We wanted that too.
And so we kept coming back.
We felt welcome.
And that's
awesome.
Yeah.
So like, give me just a brief picture
of like what your life was before
you started coming to inspiring hope.
Like what, what would you say
your life typically look like?
Well, for me, uh, God was obviously
lacking absent-minded, uh, and
you know, Go to work every day.
And you know, I'm working for the
family and trying to be there for the
family, but, you know, I just didn't
feel whole, um, you know, I'm, I'm
just, I, there was something missing
and I would wake up looking for some
kind of joy and I would do this task
and then feel good for a minute.
And then just I'm onto the next
task, you know, how can I, how
can I make my family feel better?
How can I, how can I be there for my wife?
Can I be better at work and you
know, at the end of the day it was
just like something is missing.
Yeah.
Same living, selfishly not
realizing necessarily the,
how much I was missing out on.
So kind of making that bridge.
So you felt that there was something
that was not fulfilled in your life.
And so being invited, inspiring hope
and getting around the community and
just kind of seeing how people loved
each other and after they followed
Jesus, that that kind of drew you in.
And so I remember we were in the
next steps lunch when we asked you
guys that question is what, what was
stopping you from giving life to Christ?
And there was a lot of questions that
you had and you said really nothing.
And so you guys gave your life to Christ.
So, so give me kind of like a picture
of what's happened over the last, you
know, eight, 10 months of your life.
Like what has changed.
I mean, just being in the word, uh,
I mean I'm praying more and more
and more, and just being with this
great community, it's great to be
here and worship with everybody.
Uh, and then the get outside of, with this
community and meet the people in Hamilton.
Uh, I'm having better
conversations at work.
Uh, It's great.
I mean, just the other day at,
you know, it snowed, I can't
find the keys to my tractor.
Uh, so I can plow the driveway.
I gotta take the snowblower out.
The snowblower auger breaks off.
I'm like, wow, I'm going to shovel
this driveway by hand, you know, but
there's gotta be a lesson in this Lord.
And, uh, here I am shoveling the
driveway and my neighbor shows up with
our plow truck and she's like, Uh, you
want me to, uh, play your driveway?
I was like, yeah, that'd be great.
How much?
And she was like, no, I'm your neighbor.
And it was just a great conversation
and I hadn't met her before.
And so I meet my neighbor and I
think here I am with a shovel and I
had these two other opportunities.
Had I found the keys or the auger didn't
break with the Lord, put the shovel in
my hand and got to meet my neighbor.
And yeah, they got to help.
They helped me out.
So it was, it was great.
Cool.
I love that.
That's awesome.
So, Kristen, what about you?
What's, what's been different.
Um, get getting in the word I'm trying to.
So I was raised Catholic and I
always thought I was a religious
person, but I didn't realize, um,
like I said, what was missing.
I was living in selfishly, um, and
developing that relationship by
reading his word and having feeling
like I had a relationship with Jesus.
It just made me less than my anxiety in
life, a lot and not feel so alone and
realize what we're really living for.
My girls before we eat, they say, you
know, we should pray or just little
things that they learn, um, from Bible
school that they say, it just makes
me feel, it makes my heart happy to
hear them already learning about Jesus
and, um, having I've had some faith
related conversations with coworkers.
Yeah.
Um,
Not living as selfishly, I guess, living
with more conviction, like in a good way.
Absolutely.
Cool.
I think that was one of the things
that they challenged me in my faith.
Cause like I'll be talking to them
and be like, so how'd your week go?
And they're like, yeah.
So we were talking with our coworker
and invite him to church and I'm like,
man, who did I invite this past week?
You know?
So like they're just not only.
Coming to church and having their
faith here, their faith is their
life and they're adding it into
their family and their daily time.
Um, we have a Bible app that, you
know, I know you guys are on I'm on.
And typically I'm like seeing
them in the word and I'm loving
hearing how that's going.
And so here's the last question for you.
So you guys can be out of the spotlight.
Um, what would you say to somebody who
may be considering giving their life to.
I would say, uh, you know, don't
wait, just take that leap, jump in.
I mean, it kinda reminds me of like
how people say, oh, well, I'm gonna
wait to make sure everything's,
uh, paid off before I have a child.
I wanna, you know, get everything in order
so I can, I know I can afford it, but
it's like, you know, uh, we're all broken.
So just, uh, just jump in the Lord's
already taken care of that for you.
Jesus is here for.
Uh, and it would only get better,
so.
Amen.
That's good.
Okay, cool.
Thank you guys so much
for sharing this more.
Why don't we give him a
round of applause for,
so of course I say that, Hey,
who's nervous about, you know,
talking in front of people.
And then I ask people to
come talk in front of people.
So, um, I'm so thankful that they said,
yes, I talked to them on Monday night.
I basically didn't give them an out.
And so they looked at me and they're
like, okay, So proud of them.
It's been really good
getting to know them.
And so testimonies are powerful guys, and
we're going to continue to see this today.
So let's jump into the word.
I know Ashton read this earlier for
us, but I want us to read it again.
Um, first Timothy chapter
one, verse 12 says this.
It says, I give, thanks.
This is Paul speaking to Timothy.
He says, I give thanks to Christ Jesus.
Our Lord, who has strengthened
me because he has considered me
faithful, appointing me to the middle.
Even though I was merely a, blasphemer
a persecutor and an arrogant man, but
I received mercy because I acted out of
ignorance in unbelief and the grace of
our Lord overflowed along with the faith.
And the love are incorrect.
This sane is trustworthy and
deserving of full acceptance Christ.
Jesus came into the world to save
sinners, and I am the worst of them,
but I received mercy for this reason.
So that in me, the worst of them
Christ Jesus might demonstrate us as
extraordinary patients as an example,
to those who would believe in him for
eternal life now to the king eternal
and mortal and visible only God be
honor and glory forever and ever.
Let's take some time to pray, Lord Jesus.
We just thank you Lord for this word,
Lord, that we can be challenged with.
Lord.
We thank you for the testimony of Joe
and Kristen and their lives and Lord,
how much they've changed and how much joy
they have, um, because of that change.
And so Lord, we just pray that all of
our hearts are open to your word today,
and we just pray this in your holy name.
So just to kind of catch you up
and the first part of Timothy,
what is this book wrote for?
So Paul was an apostle, basically an
apostle basically means that he had solved
Jesus after his resurrection, which that
was on the road to Damascus when Jesus,
Shaun down and basically blinded him.
And so the apostle Paul was a missionary.
He went everywhere.
To plant churches and start,
you know, re basically, uh,
lead people to faith in Christ.
And he add workers that went along with
him and Timothy was one of his workers.
And in this text, it talks about that.
Timothy is a beloved son, so he really
valued his relationship with Timothy.
And so he's deciding to write this letter
to Timothy, who is the pastor of emphasis.
It's a church that Paul was part
of planting, and he's helping
Timothy basically deal with some of
the struggles that are in church.
And I don't know about y'all.
If you've been in church, you know,
their struggles in the church,
And these struggles for them was
there were some false teachers.
There were some men that were
in the church that were teaching
incorrectly about the gospel.
They were trying to bring back
in the law and for them to
follow the law to a complete T.
And if they couldn't follow the
law, then there were some, some
things missing in their life.
And so people begin to be
burdened with that law.
And there's some more things that we'll
talk about as this text goes on about
the things that they were burdened with.
And so Paul's like, Hey, no, here's
how you address false teaching.
And so here's how he told Timothy number
one, you need to address false teaching.
Through love through love.
And the reason why it's love is
because the false teachers were
causing dissension in the church
and anger and all this infighting.
And he says, no love will help deal with
this false teaching now love and truth,
which means we're not going to, um, uh,
you know, shrink on truth, but we're
going to deal with it in love so that it
produces a love and an outcome of love.
And so we saw that over the.
Uh, two weeks ago when we
walked through this text.
And so it kind of ends this way
as Paul kind of explains all
these people that need the law
or those who don't have Christ.
And he says, the law is really
just a mirror and we kind
of described it this way.
The law is a mirror to
realize that we're dirty.
And I showed you guys a picture two
weeks ago of a time when I was in Africa
and it rained outside in the road, in
the back of a truck for three hours.
And I got back to the place where we
were staying and I was covered in dirt.
I mean, covered in dirt
and everybody was laughing.
And I didn't know why.
And when I went to the mirror,
I recognized my condition.
See, that's what the law is.
The law is not meant for something
that for us to follow to a T, but it's
meant to tell us that we will never
attain perfection apart from Christ.
That's why Christ came so
that he could provide that.
Uh, walk in that perfect
ability to fulfill the law.
And so here's what Tim or
Timothy here's what Paul does.
So Paul goes directly from that
and he begins to now talk about
his testimony, his life change.
And there's a reason why, because there's
a connection between these false teachers
and there's a connection between.
That Paul relates to these false teachers,
because it says in the first couple of
verses in Timothy, it talks about that
these teachers were teaching ignorantly.
See Paul when he was teaching
ignorantly, because it talks about
this and we'll kind of get into it.
God's still forgave him.
And so he's trying to help these teachers
know, Hey, you're not too far gone.
Even if you've made a mistake,
God still can extend his
mercy and grace towards you.
And so he's actually trying to relate to
these false teachers with this message.
And so that's going to challenge us today.
So we're going to kind of walk
through this a little bit different.
We're not going to cover
verse 12 until the end.
We're going to jump into first 13.
And we're going to look at Paul's life
before Christ Paul's life before Christ.
It says this in the first part of 13,
he says, even though I was formerly a
blasphemer a persecutor and an arrogant.
And so just to kind of give you
a little bit of background, Paul,
if you study in the book of acts,
you'll see him named Saul and he got
a new name because it's cool to give
new names when life change happens.
I don't know.
Okay.
There's some, some more details of
that, but his name was Saul and he
used to be a persecutor of Christians.
And that's what he's talking about here.
I used to persecute Christians.
What does it mean to persecute Christians?
It says that he was breathing.
It's this an accident nine one.
It says that he was breathing threats
and murder against the disciples of the.
So much so that he was given authority
to go, but Christians and Joe Paul also,
when he was saw was the person that
whenever Steven, if you don't know Stephen
again, acts you go to acts and things
around chapter six, you'll hear Stephen
was one of the first deacons, servant
leaders in the church that proclaimed
the gospel and they didn't like it.
And so they were stoning him
to death and Paul's there.
And it says that he
accepted, he was backing.
He was okay with him Sonia, because they.
Didn't like what he was saying.
And so Paul had a rough past and
the interesting with policy, he
was also really smart and the law.
And so he had been trained by a guy
that I can barely pronounce his name.
Um, and, and this is a really smart guy.
And so we have Paul who's smart.
He was zealous for the.
He was a persecutor of Christians
and it says he was a blast boomer.
So he denied Christ and force
other people to do the same.
He used abusive powers, right?
And it talks about that.
He was an arrogant man.
He was prideful, throwing
his weight around.
He was again, creating violence
and threats, a modern day bullying.
That doesn't sound like a good person.
You want to be around.
Anybody want to be around Saul?
Okay, good.
We're all in the same boat.
I'll tell you this.
Paul didn't want to be around himself.
So I want to ask this question, have
you ever regretted doing something or
being a person in the past that maybe
you were before anybody ever regretted,
maybe how you acted in the past?
I think a lot of us relate to that, right?
Like for me as a parent,
there's some moments where I
get really angry at my kids.
And then man, I am just defeated because
I realized I shouldn't have done that now.
Just, just, this is a teaching moment.
When you make a mistake in front
of your kids, don't just say.
Repent and ask for forgiveness from
them too many times as parents.
This is a side note, just so you
know, I've learning this, that when
I do something wrong in front of
my kids or around my kids, that
I go to them and I asked them for
forgiveness because just because I'm
an adult, doesn't mean I get a pass.
It's teaching them and modeling to them
repentance because whenever they start
doing things wrong and they recognize
they're wrong, you don't have to
tell them to go ask for forgiveness.
They'll go do it them.
Side note, but it's great.
So we know this right.
We don't like sometimes the way we
used to be and neither did Paul.
And sometimes we look at our past and
we start saying, Could God ever forgive
me, can I ever overcome this, this,
whatever you want to call this, this past
of mine, of how I talked or how I acted
or who I was or who, what I didn't do.
And for some of you, you may say,
Hey, I've always been a decent person.
And so that may not relate to
you, but we do know that obviously
all of us are not perfect.
This side of.
And so when we look back, um, and
whenever I look back on my life, I know
that there was some things in my life
before I give my life to Christ that
man, I just, even to this day, I'm like,
man, I hope nobody figures this one out.
And you guys may be saying, Hey, I'm
going to go to get some dirt on you.
Go ahead.
I'll ask for forgiveness on it.
But that was in the past.
Right.
But I realized this if Christ had never
come into my life, where would I be?
Where would I.
I would not be anywhere
where I'm at guaranteed.
I probably wouldn't be in Cincinnati
guarantee that, but I always ask
this question, where would I be?
I remember before I gave my life to Christ
and this is why I'm sitting here relating
with Paul before I gave my life to Christ.
I don't know if our
marriage would have made it.
We had a young child.
I don't know if it would
have, we would have made it.
I was not a good person.
I was angry all the time.
I was greedy.
I was selfish and it was
all about me even though.
And so until God changed
that I just that's who I was.
And so you can hate me.
Go ahead.
God forgave me.
I hope you do too.
Okay.
But when we think about this as our
past does not define us, that's what
Paul was trying to remind Timothy.
He's trying to remind
these false teachers.
He's trying to remind us our past.
Doesn't define a sense.
So, you know, what is our past, do you
know, your past could have been five
minutes ago about the negative thought
that you just had too many times the.
Which we do all have an enemy.
It tries to take our past and say, this
is who you are and God looks at you.
And he says, this is not who you are.
You are a child of God.
And so when you give your life to
Christ, when you ask God to forgive
you, you are completely clean.
He looks at you as though
you have not sinned.
Whenever you ask for forgiveness,
when you give your life to Christ.
So that was Paul's life
before Christ, right?
He was a persecutor and a blast
femur and an arrogant man.
All of us probably have some form of.
But that past does not define us.
So now let's talk about how
Paul came to faith in Christ.
So we see here on the other side of,
uh, the verse 13, it says, um, but I
received mercy because I acted out of
ignorance and unbelief and the grace
of our Lord overflowed along with
faith and love that are in Christ.
Jesus.
Again, I began to ask myself this
question if Paul was a murder,
because murder seems to be a little
bit higher up on the sin ratio.
I don't know about you all, but it
seems like a mine murder is pretty bad.
I sorta thinking, how could Paul
have ever been forgiven of his sins?
Didn't he just send too much?
Wasn't that just too far.
And for me it may be,
but for God, it's not.
And so I've been in thinking about
this, how could God ever save a
blaspheming persecutor who was arrogant?
Like Paul Jesus, that's the only
way that he could be saved as Jesus,
because Jesus died in Paul's place
and took the punishment of this.
I'm telling you there's some times where
I wonder, and I say the same thing, Lord,
how could you save a blast Famer and
arrogant and angry, greedy, selfish person
like me and you know what the Lord says,
Jesus, because I could not do it myself.
I would have made a mistake at least once.
And that's what y'all made me think.
I'm a great person you may be, but you
know, there's something in your life that
has not been right, at least in your life.
Unless you're a baby and you're just cute.
Um, sorry.
That's just a great note.
I saw too many babies around
here that are really cute.
Um, so we look here at verse part
first 13, it says God gave Paul mercy.
And so here's what mercy is.
It's not giving Paul what he does.
Not giving poverty deserves.
So the punishment that Paul deserved
for his sins, eternity separated
from God, was not given to him.
So it says that mercy was given to him.
And then it says grace
was given to him as well.
But mercy was given him not
because of his unbelief.
It was really his ignorance.
And that's why he was specifically saying
here was my ignorance of unrelieved.
He lacked the information, the
understanding he had never met Christ.
And so this is what you would say as well.
You know, my past is out of
ignorance, the way I've acted.
And so, you know, I can't be, you know,
punished, I received mercy, right?
When you can today, before you leave.
So, you know, you've sat under the gospel.
You have been extended mercy today
by God, grace, by God, no matter what
your past is, you can be forgiven.
But if you walk out of here
today, it's not ignorance anymore.
You've heard.
So Paul was like in the ignorant
phase, which means it's a lot
more understandable, but when we
actively reject God, that's on us.
It's not on him.
God is always.
And so knowingly since I'll just give
you an example of what it is about
those who normally send it Hebrews 10
26 says this for, if we deliberately go
on sending after receiving the knowledge
of truth, there is no longer remains
a sacrifice for sin, but a terrifying
expectation of judgment and fury of
fire about to consume the adversaries.
So I would just say this,
if you know, only reject.
It's on you.
It's no longer on your
ignorance or on anybody else.
We've clearly communicated that.
And so I think that's important
to know because too many times
is, is this is the question.
Should we go share the gospel?
If people hang out in
ignorance, isn't that great?
No, because at the end of their
life, they'll all stand before God.
And so we are part of helping other
people not be ignorant anymore.
And so, you know, the anger
is such back in Oklahoma.
That was, uh, if you said somebody was
ignorant, you pretty much got an, a.
I'm pretty sure you're
going to just get beat up.
Ignorant is not like a bad thing.
It's shit to know.
You didn't have the knowledge.
You just didn't know.
So it's not like calling you dumb.
It's just really good to know.
And most of us, as we grew up,
as kids in school were ignorant
because we haven't got to that
point where we know algebra one.
I don't know if I still know
algebra one, but still, maybe
I'll just keep claiming ignorance.
They don't give me an a for it though.
Um, I keep giving horrible
jokes up here by the way.
Um, so let me give you some examples here.
So guys.
Paul grace as well, giving
him what he did deserve.
Right?
So he gave him forgiveness and eternal
life with God and freedom from sin.
So I'm going to try to build a bridge here
for you to kind of help this make sense.
How many of you have been pulled
over by a cop for speeding?
Anytime.
Okay.
See this picture here.
There's two ladies.
The only ones that get warnings
are ladies, by the way.
That's why I put two pictures on there.
So maybe I'm lying here.
Nothing against you, ladies.
It just happened to be
two pictures with ladies.
So how many of you have been
stopped and given a warning?
Okay.
This hopefully will sink for
you when we receive a warning.
It doesn't go on our record.
As though you broke the law, you broke
the law, you sped, but a warning was.
And it's not on your record.
When we receive mercy and
grace, we broke the law.
It's clear, we were pulled over.
You're guilty.
Here's what Jesus does.
He gives you a warning and
he says grace and mercy.
And then a great picture that
really made sense to me when I begin
to merge those things together.
That's what God does.
And you may be saying, Hey, at what
point do I need to stop receiving
mercy and grace, the moment you stop
sending, which means you're going to
need it for a little while longer.
Okay.
And so that's continually sent to
us not to, and we'll go back to,
up to Hebrews chapter 10, verse 26.
We don't go on deliberately sending,
but we do know as our life's go, we will
make mistakes, but those mistakes don't
define us because Jesus covers our sins.
So we again, receive that mercy
and grace over and over again.
As needed, not because we're going on
sending because we just want to receive
it, but we get it because we know
we're going to need it in our lives.
So I hope that makes sense.
So grace and mercy, when we receive
it, even if we broke the law, we
won't be counted towards our record.
That is amazing.
So Paul also mentions verse 14 here,
and he mentioned God's grace, faith
and love overflowed in his life.
So you guys may be wondering.
Am I really thirsty.
I started thinking through this and why
I'm going to do this today because I love
visual aids because they make sense to me,
imagine this cup be in our life, right?
And it's about, you know, a little over a
third of the way full it's, not half way.
Imagine if that was the amount
of grace and mercy that God gave
us, but this is our whole lives.
Would it be enough?
Okay, good.
I'm glad you guys answered
that question quickly for me.
You think that's enough
grace and mercy for you?
I mean, that'll cover part of your sins.
McDonnell.
Let's keep going.
Cause I think this is where you
guys will probably land with me.
You'll think right
about there just enough.
Cause that's all God gives us.
He gives us just enough grace and
mercy because you know, that's
all we need is just enough.
You know what Paul says?
Paul says he overflowed us with
grace and mercy and some of
you are going crazy right now.
That's the God I serve, I need the
overflow because I will miss the mark.
And that overflow tells me I don't have
to ride a line to do just enough to
meet God's expectation to me because
his grace and mercy is overflowed.
That's what Paul saying
that speaks volumes.
To know that I have God's grace
and mercy every day, because if I
didn't, oh man, I would be miserable.
I would fell and I would go over it.
I would not be able to meet it.
And so God challenges me
with this statement today
when Paul uses that overflow.
And if you go into a different
translation, he actually says this, some
translate the word overflow to exceedingly
abundant, grace and mercy was given.
Yeah.
One of my favorite verses is that
God will do exceedingly abundantly
more than we can ask or think.
And I started thinking about this, God
will overflow more than we can ask or
think in our lives for his glory and for
our good debt that encourages me to go
out and live my faith for him because
I am dependent upon God's overflowing,
love grace and mercy, all of this.
And then Paul says this in verse
15, and I love it because this
is almost like a lean up moment.
And so if you want to lean up, go for it.
Selena up moment, Paul saying
this sane is trustworthy.
Hey, listen up.
If you've checked out the rest of the
message, if you showed up and you're
half asleep because you stayed up
too late watching a movie it's okay.
Jump back in today.
Lean up.
That's what Paul's saying.
Lena.
This sane is trustworthy and
deserving of full acceptance.
So here's my challenge to
you, except it it's true.
Full acceptance Christ.
Jesus came into the world
to save sinners Christ.
Jesus came into the world to save sinners.
And here's what he says.
Paul says, and I am the worst.
So I want to ask this question, who
are the sinners in the world that
Jesus came to save your question?
The worst?
Yes.
All of us.
He says he came, that centers all centers.
So now here's the great
question who are centers.
Okay.
All of us.
And so here's what the word says.
Romans 3 23 says for all, have sinned
and fall short, the glory of God, you
may have walked in this room and you
may not like when somebody calls you a
center and trust me, I get it because
it's almost like an attack on your
character and that's not sending us.
And so, you know, sending us missing the.
You're missing the mark,
meaning you're not perfect.
So if you would come into
this room and say, I'm not
perfect, then you're a sinner.
Sorry.
And so you, because you are a sinner,
that means you need to be forgiven.
You need to have someone come
and basically save you from your
sin because it, apart from that,
you will spend an eternity apart.
And that's where Jesus comes in.
He says it's a full acceptance
that every Jesus came so that
all could be saved, right?
So that everyone could come to know him.
He wants to save everybody because
everybody needs to be saved
from something from themselves.
Sometimes I think as a kid, I really wish
that God would have saved me from the
punishments I received, but God cared
way more than those, those punishments.
He cared about the eternal.
You know, I look at this way.
Sometimes we look at God and
we think God is an angry God.
And he just hates us and
he doesn't care about us.
And you may say, well, no, I don't.
There's some people that do
know our God loves us so much
the number when he created us.
And he says, this, you
are my greatest creation.
My just so you know, my
greatest creation or my kids.
Right.
What I would say like that.
Like they mean a lot to me.
And I love that.
But there's times where, when they
do wrong, I need to punish them.
Not to make them feel bad for
themselves, but to help them know that
that's not valuable for the lives.
So when the Lord says, Hey, you've
sinned and I'm bringing grace and
mercy and a better life for you.
He's not saying your herb horrible person.
He says, I've got a better life.
I've got a better life.
So God looks to you.
Like, you may look at your children.
If you have.
And you say you love them so much that
you're willing to put things in their
life to draw them back to the truth,
the things that will change their lives.
That's what Jesus is doing.
He's coming in and he's aligning us back
with God's perfect plan for our life.
And that comes through grace and mercy.
So if you're sitting in this room and
maybe you're wondering if you could be
saved, Paul himself gives us this answer.
If Paul was the worst of them and
he was saved, what's the answer.
Can God say.
Yes, he can save anyone.
And this is where verse 16 comes.
He says I received mercy for this reason.
So that in me, the worst of them Christ
Jesus might demonstrate his extraordinary
patience as an example, to those who
would believe in him for eternal life.
Even if you have a past, even if
you fallen away, even if you've
rejected, God, God can still save you.
And I love Paul's example with
this is because if Paul is saying
he's the worst of the worst.
And there's nobody that
can say I can't be saved.
And I hope you know that today is if
you've done something, if your past
has been rough, if I don't know what
it is, God is saying, you can be
forgiven and you can be saved and you
can experience eternal life with him.
And you can experience a personal
daily relationship with him.
And that's the one I typically
push the most, most pastors will,
will say, you're going to have.
And here's the thing Aternity is coming
in and we're going to go one place.
I really, as a pastor, once you
experienced heaven now, do you
know how you experience heaven now?
Jesus, through a daily relationship with
him to experience his love, joy, peace,
patience, kindness, all those other
fruits of the spirit that God gives us.
You can experience it now.
And so, you know, Joe and
Chris, and what was the thing?
They mentioned the community.
You want to know why they,
they wanted to experience.
This side of heaven is because they saw
the community that they could receive
it now because they receive friends
and people who encourage them and pray
for them and reach out when they're
sick and love them and love their
kids and, and show who Christ is here.
I'm telling you guys like to me as
a pastor, I want you to experience.
I don't want you to experience hell
either, but I want you to experience
that more because it's something that
man it's changed my life and it's
changed so many other people's lives.
So what happens?
So we see Paul's life before
Christ, how he came to Christ.
He received grace and mercy.
That overflowed what happened after the.
Paul's life was changed.
This is where verse 12 comes in.
Paul is saying, I give thanks to
Christ Jesus, our Lord, who has
strengthened me because he considered
me faithful, appointing me to ministry.
See God appointed Paul to ministry.
And you guys heard Laura earlier
say that she was surrendering
the ministry, and there's a call
that God places on different
people's lives for different roles.
And my challenge today with this and
in the same thing with Paul is every
one of us has a call in our lives.
It may not be ministry like in the, in
the context in which Laura is talking
about or a ministry as a pastor,
every one of us is called a ministry.
And you maybe say what?
Well as a pastor, my role in the ministry
is to equip the saints followers of
Jesus to do the work of the ministry.
So if you're going to do the work
of the ministry, doesn't that mean?
Every one of us has a ministry role.
Does that make sense?
So this is Paul saying I'm giving
thanks to God for what he did for me.
Now that I've been saved every one of us.
So, you know, you can't
skate out from this today.
Every one of us that have been saved
by God's grace and mercy overflowed
with it has a minister call.
Now that may scare you to death.
The scare you.
Okay.
Couple of you rush y'all don't know
what you're getting yourself into.
Joking.
It's a good thing though,
because Paul was able to praise
God for the call of ministry.
And just so you know,
this is the cool part.
It's crazy.
It's cool.
Paul's writing this letter and prison.
So Paul's ministry got him a spot in
prison and he's praising God for it.
Why?
Because Paul didn't see the prison walls.
Paul Paul saw the
kingdom of God expanding.
Across the whole world because people
took the message and they shared it.
This is what Timothy is getting, is
the message of the gospel straight
from Paul to go share this love
with other people so that other
people can know they can be saved.
See guys, sometimes our ministry
is not going to put us up in
a penthouse, $100,000 salary.
And most of us probably
never going to get that.
Maybe you do, but.
But what it's going to get you is
the love of Christ and the ability
to influence and affect others.
So I'll go back to this.
Your testimony is powerful.
Paul's testimony is powerful, but I want
to challenge you with this question.
What if Paul didn't share his
testimony would lives be changed?
I don't think he could have wrote
half the new Testament like he did.
If he didn't share his testimony,
what would he have to sh.
It was powerful because we read
it and we're encouraged by it.
So what if someone's waiting on you to
share your testimony, the boldly go out
and proclaim the truth of the gospel.
Somebody waiting on you to be changed,
man, I don't want them waiting anymore.
I don't, I don't.
So I'm going to continue to share.
I'm going to continue to be
bold with my faith, not bold and
arrogant, bold with love and true.
That they can experience Christ
Jesus, this side of heaven,
that they can experience grace
and mercy, this side of heaven.
So I want to challenge
you with this statement.
When someone obeys God's call to serve
him, he will always equip and enable them.
I'll say that again.
When someone obeys God's call to serve
him, he will always equip and enable.
To do the work that they're called to do.
So if you feel like, oh man, I'm
called to ministry, or I'm called
to a ministry role of some form
living my life out for Christ.
How do I do it?
Great.
If you say yes, like Laura sock, Matt,
he will provide a way, if you say
yes, God will take a person that loves
sitting in the back row and not public
speaking and place them in front of
people who every week he's nauseous to
his stomach and wonders if he's making
a difference, because it's not about.
And my abilities, God, didn't
say, Hey, you bring a lot to
the table and I'm gonna use it.
He says, I bring it all to the table.
And I'll work through you despite
your pass, despite your brokenness,
despite whatever you think is
holding you back from serving
him the way he's called you to.
So verse 17, I know I'm kind
of going along today, but
verse 17 kind of concludes with
this Paul's way to praise out.
He says now, so the king eternal,
immortal, invisible, the only God
be honor and glory forever and ever.
Amen.
This is Paul's way to
praise God for his testing.
Praise God for what he know is
going to change the lives of so many
other people through sharing it.
He can even praise God
in the midst of a prison.
So that's amazing when we get to second
Timothy, you're going to see this.
You're going to see in second Timothy,
where Paul knows that he's getting
ready to die and he still praising
God on his way to his deathbed.
There's power, there's
power in our testing.
There's power Paul's testimony, there's
power and Joe, and Chris's testimony.
There's power in your testimony.
But if we don't share it, it
doesn't change anybody else's life.
But when we share it has the
ability to change others lives.
So here's the take home Paul's testimony
with this testimony we heard from Joe and
Kristen, that should challenge us to do.
The first, if you've never given your
life to Christ, if you don't have that,
you had the before Christ, but you'd
never given your life to Christ and
experience the after of the relationship
with him today is the day to say.
I'm not ignorant anymore, which skin.
So that word is not mean.
You just didn't know before today.
Maybe the day, maybe you have
heard it before and today's the
day to accept it and say, I don't.
And I love this with Laura.
When she said her call to ministry, she
says, I just know the Lord told me to
say yes, I don't have all the answers.
You know what the Lord told me whenever
I started a ministry, he said, you give
me your guests and I'll show you the.
That's what it is.
When you give your life to Christ, you
don't have to know all the answers.
You have to know enough, which means
this enough of your need for Christ, that
you have fallen short, that you do need
Christ, that he did send his love and
mercy and grace to overflow your life.
And to begin to give you a purpose in this
life, to be a part of his bigger picture
of, of knowing him and helping others.
So, if you haven't given your life to
Christ, I offer this every week and maybe
it's never worked because nobody's ever
come back and talked with just so your
nobody's ever come back to talk to me
and that's okay, but I'll tell you this.
If you have to chase me down, drag me
down, find somebody else because you
want to know Jesus come find me because
it should be that important to you.
And if we need to meet somewhere,
if I need to come to your home,
I don't care what I need to do.
If you need to know Jesus, I
will crawl over mountains to.
And if you think I'm lying, I'm dying.
Okay.
That's a great one.
But if you need to know
Jesus, today is today.
Today is the day of salvation
because we're not promised tomorrow.
And I'll tell you this.
You don't want to miss out
tomorrow with Jesus, right?
tomorrow with Jesus when you
could have him today, right?
Like let's not wait till tomorrow.
For those of us, who've
given our lives to Christ.
What's the challenge today?
What should we learn
from these testimonies?
Hey, here's the challenge.
You.
Habit testimony.
If you've given your life to Christ,
you have a story of redemption of
your life before Christ, how you came
to Christ and what God's done after.
Go share it, go share it today at
lunch, call your friend, tell your
coworker tomorrow I am changed
because of what God's done for me.
And I want you to know it and in
whatever you do with it's great, but
I just want you to know, go do it
because there's someone waiting for you.
On the other side of
you sharing your time.
That challenges me every week.
So as we head into invitation, those are
the two things I want you to pray for.
And this is typically what
we do with invitation.
We try and I don't want to
be like every other church.
Not that they're wrong, but we're,
we're just trying to consistently
communicate the purpose of imitation
invitation is opportunity to say, Hey,
I've heard a lot of information today.
I want to pray for transformation.
So I'm going to say this again, invitation
as an opportunity for you to stop.
After all the information you've heard
and you begin to pray for transformation.
God, what is it in my life that I
need to take a next step in, maybe
a surrender into a call of just
living your life out for them.
Maybe it's to give your life to him.
Maybe it's to share your testimony.
I don't know that answer, but you
do my challenge for you is this time
as we play lightly, that you pray
and you ask the Lord what that is.
Ask him to give you.
Come back and talk to me say,
Hey, pastor Ben, pray with me.
Help me.
Tell me about Jesus.
Maybe you need to know Jesus and
I'll share Jesus with you more,
but today take that next step.
And after you get an opportunity
to pray and seek the Lord, Brock's
gonna invite you to worship at
we'll finish our day out, worshiping
the Lord, the one who overflowed
us with grace and mercy and love.
Amen.
Let's pray, Lord Jesus.
You are good.
And you are God.
And I pray that you take
this message of truth.
And you Pierce our hearts.
God, I wouldn't be standing here today.
If my life wasn't changed, I
wouldn't be standing here today,
all the way from Oklahoma.
If you didn't place a call on my
life and Lord today, I stand here
sharing a testimony of a life change.
Not only of my own life, Lord, but a
testimony and a live change of Paul
and the word Lord, a life change
and a testimony of Joe and Chris.
Uh, Lord, how you took them out of a
life that was not fulfilled out of a
life that was separated from you out of a
life that was, uh, lacking something to a
personal dedicated relationship with you.
One where there was so much
transformation where there's joy
and there's hope and there's peace.
And there's wisdom brought from
you because of that relationship.
Lord, we are celebrating today.
Powerful testimonies.
But Lord, I want every person in
this room to know if they think,
oh, my testimony is not powerful.
All how they are doubting you.
Lord.
Any testimony of life change
has been given by you.
Lord is powerful because
the message is hope.
The message is joy.
The message is Jesus.
So God, I just pray for
every person in this room.
To not leave here before taking a next
step, whatever it is, Lord, you're
leading them to, during this time of
invitation for their hearts, Lord, to
consider transformation in their life.
Lord help them take a next step.
Don't leave any person unchanged.
But Lord, lastly, if there's one person
in this room, Lord, that doesn't know
you and wants to know you, Lord, I
pray that they come back and they
talk to me during invitation in the
back, and we get an opportunity to
talk about how to get their life.
So Lord, we pray this
in your heavenly name.
Amen.